.TH INSTALLPKG 8 "24 Dec 2005" "Tukaani Linux"
.SH NAME
installpkg \- install Slackware and Tukaani compatible packages

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B installpkg
.RB [ \-\-warn ]
.RB [ \-\-quiet ]
.RB [ "\-\-root \fI/otherroot" ]
.I packagename
.RI [ "packagename2" " ...]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B installpkg
installs a single or multiple binary packages designed for use with the
Slackware Linux and compatible distributions. Compression method used in
the package is detected from filename extension:
.TP
.B .tgz
gzip compressed tar archive
.TP
.B .tlz
LZMA compressed tar archive
.TP
.B .tbz
bzip2 compressed tar archive
.TP
.B .tar
Uncompressed tar archive
.PP
For more information of different package compression methods see
.BR makepkg (8).
.PP
If the
.I packagename
begins with
.B http://
or
.B ftp://
it is assumed to be an URL instead of a regular file. To use URLs with
installpkg you need to have
.BR wget (1)
installed.
.PP
.B installpkg
never upgrades any packages. If a version of the package is already
installed,
.B installpkg
installs the new package without removing the old package. Usually some
files overlap between different versions of the same package.
Overlapping files are always overwritten without warnings. To upgrade
packages see
.BR upgradepkg (8).
Note that
.B upgradepkg
can also install new packages, and at least for beginners it is
recommended to use it for both installing and upgrading packages.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-warn
Generate a report to the standard output about which files and directories
would be removed or overwritten if you install the package(s). Do not
actually install it.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Supress all status messages during installation except wget download
information. Critical error messages are still shown. If you want
installpkg to be really quiet, redirect the output to /dev/null.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-gpg
Force the verification of GPG signatures overriding the options set in
the configuration file. Only packages that have been signed with a known
valid key are installed. The signature files have
.B .asc
extension; e.g. the signature file of foo-0.12-i486-1barney.tgz is
foo-0.12-i486-1barney.tgz.asc.
.TP
.BR \-G ", " \-\-no-gpg
Forcibly disable the verfication of GPG signatures overriding the
settings set in the configuration file.
.TP
.BI "\-b " "/packages\fR, " "\-\-base " "/packages"
Specify a directory or URL which is prepended to every package name
specified. This option can be useful if you have a list of full package
names in a file and want to e.g. download and install all of them:
.br
installpkg -b http://myserver/mypacks $(cat packagelist.txt)
.TP
.BI "\-R " "/otherroot\fR, " "\-\-root " "/otherroot"
Install using a location other than / (the default) as the root of the
filesystem to install on. In the example given, use /otherroot
instead. Setting the
.B ROOT
environment variable does the same thing.

.SH FILES
.TP
.B /etc/pkgtools/config
Configuration file. Documentation of all the configuration options have
been put to
.BR pkgtool (8)
section
.BR "CONFIGURATION FILE" .
.TP
.B /root/.gnupg/pubring.gpg
Trusted public keys. You can import keys with a command like
.B gpg \-\-import GPG-KEY
where GPG-KEY is a file containing one or more public keys that you
trust.

.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B ROOT
Setting this is equivalent to using the
.B \-\-root
.I /otherroot
command line parameter.

.SH BUGS
Use
.B upgradepkg \-\-install\-new
instead of 
.B installpkg
unless you have a special reason to use
.BR installpkg .
Usually the reasons are limited to installing a new kernel package (to keep the old kernel still installed) and using the
.B \-\-warn
option.
.PP
.B installpkg
does not check if a package with identical name is already installed and
will silently overwrite its database entry. If the old package and new
package have differences in their filelists,
.B the files that no longer exist in the newer package will vanish
.B from the package database.
This issue will not be fixed to keep Slackware compability (advanced
users might even like this ``feature'' and know how to use it properly).

.SH AUTHORS
Original by Patrick J. Volkerding <volkerdi@slackware.com>
.PP
Revised for Tukaani Linux by Lasse Collin <lasse.collin@tukaani.org>
and Ville Koskinen <w\-ber@iki.fi>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pkgtool (8),
.BR installpkg (8),
.BR removepkg (8),
.BR upgradepkg (8),
.BR viewpkg (1),
.BR explodepkg (1),
.BR makepkg (1),
.BR convertpkg (1),
.BR slackrepo (1),
.BR wget (1),
.BR gpgv (1)
