.TH PKGTOOL 8 "8 Jul 2006" "Tukaani Linux"
.SH NAME
pkgtool \- software package maintenance tool.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pkgtool
.RI [ options ] " " [ "command " [ arguments ]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pkgtool
is the standard package maintenance tool provided with the Slackware
Linux distribution.  It allows the user to install, upgrade, remove, or
view software packages through an interactive menu system.  Pkgtool can
also be used to re-run the menu-driven scripts normally executed at the
end of a Slackware installation.  This is useful for doing basic
reconfiguration (like changing the mouse type).
.PP
.B pkgtool
can be used in two modes: menu based and command line. Menus are created with
.BR dialog (1)
.PP
There is also a third mode which is used by the installation program. It can 
be invoked with
.BI "pkgtool setup " source " " root_device
This feature is not properly documented yet.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-R " dir ", \-\-root " dir
Use different filesystem root directory. Defaults to
.BR / .
Instead of \-\-root you can use the
.B ROOT
environment variable. If both are speficied, \-\-root overrides $ROOT.
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress messages except the wget progress bar. This can only be used in
command line mode.
.TP
.B \-\-help
Prints a list of supported commands and options.

.SH COMMANDS
Arguments shown in [brackets] are optional. The default repository is the
first repository in the alphabetical order.
.PP
.B GENERAL COMMANDS (NON-INTERACTIVE)
.TP
.B check
Checks package database integrity and reports errors found. 
Pkgtool checks for valid package names, packages left from failed upgradepkg,
orphan installation scripts which do not have a matching package
installed.
.TP
.B purge
Empties the cache directory containing the downloaded packages. By
default the cache directory is /var/cache/packages. See section
.B FILES
for config file options.
.TP
.B tools
Check that the required helper applications are installed and show the results.
.TP
.B help
Alias for
.BR \-\-help .
.PP
.B INTERACTIVE REPOSITORY COMMANDS
.TP
.IR "\fBmenu " [ reponame "] " search_regex
Abbreviation:
.B m
.br
Search specified repository for package names matching the
.IR search_regex .
Results are shown in a dialog based menu where you can
select packages to be installed. This is equivalent to selecting
Repositories \-> reponame \-> CustomName.
.TP
.IR "\fBmenu\-desc " [ reponame "] " search_regex
Abbreviation:
.B md
.br
Search specified repository for packages whose description matches
regular expression
.IR search_regex .
Results are shown in a dialog based menu where you can
select packages to be installed. This is equivalent to selecting
Repositories \-> reponame \-> CustomDesc.
.TP
.BR "menu\-updates " [ "\fIreponame" ]
Abbreviation:
.B mu
.br
Show all packages having a different version available in specified
repository. You can select which packages to install from a dialog based
menu. This is equivalent to selecting Repositories \-> reponame \->
Updates. Note that this command does not automatically update the repository
database; use
.B update
for that.
.TP
.BI "menu\-dir " directory
Abbreviation:
.B d
.br
Show a dialog based menu of the packages in the specified directory. You
will be prompted for how to filter the package list. This is equivalent to
selecting Directory from the main menu.
.PP
.B NON-INTERACTIVE REPOSITORY COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
Abbreviation:
.B l
.br
Lists repository names and their addresses.
.TP
.BI "add " reponame " " address
Adds a new repository.
.I reponame
can contain up to 16 characters which can be letters or numbers or
underscores.
.I address
can be absolute path (begins with a slash) or HTTP or FTP URL (beginning
with http:// or ftp://). The speficied directory must contain the properly
formatted files FILELIST.TXT and PACKAGES.TXT. The repository is
spitted in disksets if it contains packages in directory
.BR slackware/a .
Otherwise all the packages will be shown in a one list. See
.BR slackrepo (1)
for information about creating your own repositories.
.TP
.BI "delete " reponame
Deletes a repository. As with all the other non-interactive commands, no
confirmation is asked.
.TP
.BI "rename " reponame " " newname
Renames a repository. See command
.B add
for limitations of repository name.
.TP
.BI "address " reponame " " newaddress
Change repository address to
.IR newaddress .
See command
.B add
for information about address format.
.TP
.BR update " [\fIreponame\fR]"
Abbreviation:
.B u
.br
Update repository database. This means downloading FILELIST.TXT and
PACKAGES.TXT from repository address and processing them to them repository
database files.
.TP
.BI "search \fR[" reponame "\fR] " search_regex
Abbreviation:
.B s
.br
List package names one per line from repository
.I reponame
matching regular expression
.IR search_regex .
The installed package version is shown in parenthesis.
.TP
.BI "search\-desc \fR[" reponame "\fR] " search_regex
Abbreviation:
.B sd
.br
List package names one per line from repository
.I reponame
whose description matches regular expression
.IR search_regex .
The installed package version is shown in parenthesis.
.TP
.BI "install \fR[" reponame "\fR] " package_name
Abbreviation:
.B i
.br
Install a package.
.I package_name
can be package basename (foo-bar), basename with version (foo-bar-0.12),
or full package name (foo-bar-0.12-i486-1barney).
.TP
.BI "list\-updates \fR[" reponame "\fR]"
Abbreviation:
.B lu
.br
List packages that have a different version available than those that are 
currently installed.
.TP
.BI "install\-updates \fR[" reponame "\fR]"
Abbreviation:
.B iu
.br
Install all the packages that have a different version available than those
that are currently installed. Use
.B list\-updates
to view the list of packages that this command would update. As with all
the other non-interactive commands, no confirmation is asked.
.B Use with care!

.SH CONFIGURATION FILE
.B /etc/pkgtools/config
is the configuration file for
.B pkgtool
and other tools in the pkgtools package. Currently supported options and
their default values are:
.TP
.B PACKAGE_CACHE_DIR="/var/cache/packages"
Directory to store downloaded packages. If directory does not exist or
is a non-directory, it is silently deleted (rm \-rf) and then created.
For security reasons (avoiding symlink attacks) this directory should be
writeable only by trusted people.
.TP
.B KEEP_DOWNLOADED=1
If you want packages installed from the Internet to be removed after
installation, change this to KEEP_DOWNLOADED=0. By default downloaded
packages are left to the package cache directory.
.TP
.B WGET_FLAGS="\-\-passive\-ftp"
Parameters to pass to wget. See man page wget(1) for more information.
.TP
.B BLACKLIST_FILE="/etc/pkgtools/blacklist"
The file containing the list of the blacklisted packages. If the specified
file does not exists this option is silently ignored. The blacklist file
should contain one package basename (not fullname) per line. All invalid
lines are silently ignored. Note that blacklist is only used by
pkgtool, not installpkg or upgradepkg.
.TP
.B VERIFY_GPG_DOWNLOADED=0
When this option is turned on (default: off), no downloaded package
without a valid signature will be installed with
.B installpkg
or
.B upgradepkg
unless
.B \-\-no\-gpg
command line option is used. Note that this option is used only by
.B installpkg
and
.BR upgradepkg ;
.B pkgtool
has its own per repository configuration for GPG usage. The trusted keys
should be in
.BR /root/.gnupg/pubring.gpg .
.TP
.B VERIFY_GPG_LOCAL=0
When this option is turned on (default: off), no local package (i.e.
no HTTP or FTP URL) without a valid signature is installed. Note that
this option is used only by
.B installpkg
and
.BR upgradepkg ;
.B pkgtool
has its own per repository configuration for GPG usage.

.SH AUTHORS
Original by Patrick J. Volkerding <volkerdi@slackware.com>
.PP
Revised for Tukaani Linux by Lasse Collin <lasse.collin@tukaani.org>
and Ville Koskinen <w\-ber@iki.fi>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pkgtool (8),
.BR installpkg (8),
.BR removepkg (8),
.BR upgradepkg (8),
.BR viewpkg (1),
.BR explodepkg (1),
.BR makepkg (1),
.BR convertpkg (1),
.BR slackrepo (1),
.BR wget (1)
