.TH REMOVEPKG 8 "24 Dec 2005" "Tukaani Linux"
.SH NAME
removepkg \- remove Slackware and Tukaani packages.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B removepkg
.RB [ \-\-warn ]
.RB [ \-\-verbose ]
.RB [ \-\-quiet ]
.RB [ "\-\-root \fI/otherroot" ]
.I packagename
.RI [ packagename2 ...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B removepkg
removes a previously installed Slackware package, while writing a progress
report to the standard output.  A package may be specified either by the
full package name (as you'd see listed in /var/log/packages/), or by the
base package name.  For example, the package foo-1.0-i386-1.tgz may be removed
with any of the following commands:

removepkg foo-1.0-i386-1.tgz

removepkg foo-1.0-i386-1

removepkg foo.tgz

removepkg foo

When deleting files,
.B removepkg
will analyze the contents of the other packages installed on your system, and
will only delete the files that are unique to the package being removed. 
Similarly, the installation scripts for all the other packages will be 
considered when deciding whether or not to delete symbolic links from the
package.
.LP
Removing a package (as well as installing one) can be a dangerous undertaking.
For this reason, there is the
.B \-\-warn
option available. When you use this,
.B removepkg
will not actually remove any files or links, but will output a detailed report
of what it would do if you actually did remove the package. It's suggested that
you do this (and maybe pipe the output to 
.B less
) before removing packages to make sure you've backed up anything that might
be important.
.LP
When removing a package, its original file index will be moved from 
/var/log/packages to /var/log/removed_packages. Likewise, its installation
script will be moved from /var/log/scripts to /var/log/removed_scripts.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-w, \-\-warn
Generate a report to the standard output about which files and directories
would be removed, but does not actually remove the package.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
List all the files being removed. Normally only warnings and errors are
shown, e.g. if some files were not found.
.TP
.B \-q, \-\-quiet
Hide all messages except the most fatal errors (which should never happen;).
.TP
.BI "\-R " /otherroot ", --root " /otherroot
Remove the packages from a location other than / (the default) as the
root of the filesystem. Setting the ROOT environment variable does the
same thing.
.SH BUGS
If two packages have files that overlap, but the directory in the
packages differ because of a symlink (or symlinks), removepkg deletes
the overlapping file(s). I have experienced this bug once in practice
but most people probably never have this problem. Triggering the bug
seems to require using third party packages. Note that you will not
experience this bug if you have a symlink like /opt->/usr/local/opt; the
overlapping files in this case are needed.
.PP
Practical example: Make package foo which has the file /opt/foo/test.txt and
the symlink /opt/bar->/opt/foo, and install the package. Make another
package named bar which has the file /opt/bar/test.txt, and install this
package too. Now we have installed two packages which have an
overlapping file but with a different path. Remove the package foo and see
how it removes also /opt/foo/test.txt even when the same file exists in
package bar.
.SH AUTHORS
Patrick J. Volkerding <volkerdi@slackware.com>,
with enhancements by Christian Franke <c.franke@acm.org>
.PP
Revised for Tukaani Linux by Lasse Collin <lasse.collin@tukaani.org>
and Ville Koskinen <w\-ber@iki.fi>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pkgtool (8),
.BR installpkg (8),
.BR removepkg (8),
.BR upgradepkg (8),
.BR viewpkg (1),
.BR explodepkg (1),
.BR makepkg (1),
.BR convertpkg (1),
.BR makerepo (1)
