.TH UPGRADEPKG 8 "24 Dec 2005" "Tukaani Linux"
.SH NAME
upgradepkg \- upgrade and install new Slackware and Tukaani compatible
packages.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upgradepkg
.RB [ --warn ]
.RB [ --install-new ]
.RB [ --reinstall ]
.RB [ --quiet ]
.RB [ "\-\-root \fI/otherroot" ]
.I newpackagename
.RI [ newpackagename2 ]
.LP
.B upgradepkg
.RB [ --warn ]
.RB [ --install-new ]
.RB [ --reinstall ]
.RB [ --quiet ]
.RB [ "\-\-root \fI/otherroot" ]
.IB oldpackagename % newpackagename
.RI [ "old2\fB%" "" new2 ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B upgradepkg
upgrades a Slackware/Tukaani package from an older version to a
newer one.  It does this by
.B INSTALLING
the new package onto the system, and then
.B REMOVING 
any files from the old package that aren't in the new package.  If the
old and new packages have the same basename, a single argument is all
that is required.  If the packages have different basenames, supply the
name of the old package followed by a percent symbol
.RB ( % ),
then the name of the new package.
Do not add any extra whitespace between pairs of old/new package names.
.PP
If upgradepkg finds more than one installed package matching the old package's
basename, it will remove them all.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR -w ", " \-\-warn ", " --dry-run
Output a report about which packages would be installed or upgraded
but don't actually perform the upgrades.
.TP
.BR -i ", " \-\-install\-new
Normally upgradepkg only upgrades packages that are already installed on the system, and
will skip any packages that do not already have a version installed.
If
.B \-\-install\-new
is specified, the behavior is modified to install new packages in addition to upgrading
existing ones.
.TP
.BR -r ", " \-\-reinstall
Upgradepkg usually skips packages if the exact same package (matching
name, version, arch, and build number) is already installed on the
system.  Use the --reinstall option if you want to upgrade all packages
even if the same version is already installed.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-gpg
Force the verification of GPG signatures overriding the options set in
the configuration file. Only packages that have been signed with a known
valid key are installed. The signature files have
.B .asc
extension e.g. signature file of foo-0.12-i486-1barney.tgz is
foo-0.12-i486-1barney.tgz.asc.
.TP
.BR \-G ", " \-\-no-gpg
Forcibly disable the verfication of GPG signatures overriding the
settings set in the configuration file.
.TP
.B \-v, \-\-verbose
List all the files being removed. Normally only warnings and errors are
shown, e.g. if some files were not found.
.TP
.BR -q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress all messages except wget download information.
.TP
.BI "\-R " "/otherroot\fR, " "\-\-root " "/otherroot"
Install using a location other than / (the default) as the root of the
filesystem to install on. In the example given, use /otherroot
instead. Setting the
.B ROOT
environment variable does the same thing.
.TP
.BR \-K ", " \-\-keep\-dotnew
.B Warning: This option is only for experts!
.br
While packages are installed, information about files having extension
.B .new
is collected to a temporary file. Normally the list is shown at the end
of the installation process and the temporary file is removed.
Specifying
.B \-\-keep\-dotnew
prevents
.B upgradepkg
from showing those files and deleting the temporary file which is stored to
.BR $ROOT/var/log/setup/tmp/dotnew .
In practice this is only useful when
.B upgradepkg
is called from other scripts.

.SH BUGS
Before upgrading a package, save any configuration files (such as in /etc)
that you wish to keep.  Sometimes these will be preserved, but it depends on
the package structure.  If you want to force new versions of the config files
to be installed, remove the old ones manually prior to running upgradepkg.

.SH AUTHORS
Original by Patrick J. Volkerding <volkerdi@slackware.com>
.PP
Revised for Tukaani Linux by Lasse Collin <lasse.collin@tukaani.org>
and Ville Koskinen <w\-ber@iki.fi>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pkgtool (8),
.BR installpkg (8),
.BR removepkg (8),
.BR upgradepkg (8),
.BR viewpkg (1),
.BR explodepkg (1),
.BR makepkg (1),
.BR convertpkg (1),
.BR makerepo (1)
