.TH CONVERTPKG 1 "24 Dec 2005" "Tukaani Linux"
.SH NAME
convertpkg \- Convert packages to and from different formats.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B convertpkg
.RI [ options ]
.I package
.RI [[ options ]
.IR package2 " ...]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B convertpkg
is meant to make the converting of packages between different compression
formats easier. The uncompressed tar file is never altered during the process.
.PP
The input file can be
.BR .tgz ,
.BR .tlz ,
.BR .tbz ,
or
.BR .tar .
(See
.BR makepkg (1)
for detailed information about the package compression formats.) If the package
is already in the requested format or the target file exists, the package is
skipped.
.B convertpkg
never overwrites any files.
.PP
In addition to Tukaani's native package format,
.B convertpkg
is able to convert
.B .rpm
and
.B .deb
packages to Tukaani/Slackware format. This conversion has limitations;
e.g. it ignores install scripts. However, it is more convenient than the
old
.BR rpm2tgz .

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-tgz ", " \-\-gzip
Convert the packages following this option to
.BR gzip (1)
compressed packages. The resulting packages will have the filename extension
.BR .tgz .
This is the only format supported by the official Slackware pkgtools. Use
this if you are going to exchange packages with systems that do not have
Tukaani pkgtools installed.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-tlz ", " \-\-lzma
Convert the packages following this option to LZMA compressed packages.
The resulting packages will have the filename extension
.BR .tlz .
This is the default if no format is specified.
.TP
.BR \-b ", " \-\-tbz ", " \-\-bzip2
Convert the packages following this option to
.BR bzip2 (1)
compressed packages. The resulting packages will have the filename extension
.BR .tbz .
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-tar ", " \-\-tar
Convert the packages following this option to uncompressed packages.
The resulting packages will have the filename extension
.BR .tar .
.TP
.BI "\-o " "directory\fR, " "\-\-outdir " directory
Specify the directory where the new converted packages are put. By
default converted packages are put to the same directory with the
original packages.

.SH AUTHORS
Lasse Collin <lasse.collin@tukaani.org>,
Ville Koskinen <w\-ber@iki.fi>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pkgtool (8),
.BR installpkg (8),
.BR removepkg (8),
.BR upgradepkg (8),
.BR viewpkg (1),
.BR explodepkg (1),
.BR makepkg (1),
.BR slackrepo (1),
.BR gzip (1),
.BR bzip2 (1),
.BR lzma (1)
