.TH MAKEREPO 1 "1 Apr 2006" "Tukaani Linux"
.SH NAME
makerepo \- Create package repositories compatible with Tukaani pkgtool
and other tools, such as slapt-get.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B makerepo
.RI [ options ]
.I directory

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B makerepo
creates the list files which contain the filenames, package descriptions
and checksums in the root of the
.IR directory .
The
.I directory
is always scanned recursively.

.SH OPTIONS
If no options are given
.B makerepo
defaults to
.BR \-fcpm .
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filelist
Create
.B FILELIST.TXT
containing the recursive list of all files and directories in the
.IR directory .
The created file is of the same format and compatible with FILELIST.TXT
found in the official Slackware FTP tree.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-manifest
Create
.B MANIFEST.bz2
which contains filelists of all the packages in the repository. The list
will not include symlinks.
.TP
.BR \-A ", " \-\-manifest-lzma
Like
.B \-\-manifest
but use LZMA compression instead of bzip2.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-changelog
Update the
.B ChangeLog
file. You probably want to edit ChangeLog manually to add more detailed
comments.
.B \-\-changelog
implies
.BR \-\-filelist .
.TP
.BR \-p ", " \-\-packages
Create
.B PACKAGES.TXT
containing package descriptions. The created file is of the same format
and compatible with PACKAGES.TXT found in the official Slackware FTP
tree.
.TP
.BR \-m ", " \-\-md5
Create
.BR CHECKSUMS.md5 .
The created file is of the same format and compatible with CHECKSUMS.md5
found in the official Slackware FTP tree.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sha1
Create
.BR CHECKSUMS.sha1 .
The created file is similar to CHECKSUMS.md5 except that it uses SHA1.
.B pkgtool
does not support checking the SHA1 checksums and this file is not used
by it.
.TP
.BR \-g ", " \-\-only-gzip
By default,
.B makerepo
will create both uncompressed and gzipped versions of the requested
files. The gzipped versions are used by
.B pkgtool
and
.BR slapt-get (8)
to make downloading faster.
.B \-\-only-gzip
disables creation of uncompressed versions.
.TP
.BR \-G ", " \-\-no-gzip
Create only uncompressed versions of the requested files.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-official
By default,
.B makerepo
creates the requested files to the root of the package tree. When
.B \-\-official
is specified,
.B makerepo
will handle subdirectories named
.BR slackware ,
.BR extra ,
.BR testing ,
.BR pasture ,
.BR patches
and
.B contrib
specially and create the requested files into these directories
separately, similar to how they are in the official Slackware FTP tree.
Repositories created with this option are (in most cases) splitted into
disksets when viewed in
.BR pkgtool .
.TP
.BR \-S ", " \-\-slapt
Include the fields 'required', 'conflicts' and 'suggests' to
PACKAGES.TXT. The fields are constructed from the files
.BR slack-required ,
.B slack-conflicts
and
.BR slack-suggests ,
if they are present in the packages. These fields are used by
.BR slapt-get (8).
They are not used by
.BR pkgtool (8)
expect that they are shown when viewing package information.
.TP
.BR \-M ", " \-\-mirror " \fIURL"
Add the 'mirror' field to PACKAGES.TXT, which is used by
.B slapt-get
to download packages from another location than that of PACKAGES.TXT.
The mirror field is not supported by
.B pkgtool
in any way; the repositories created with this option probably work only
with
.BR slapt-get .

.SH AUTHORS
Lasse Collin <lasse.collin@tukaani.org>,
Ville Koskinen <w\-ber@iki.fi>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pkgtool (8),
.BR installpkg (8),
.BR removepkg (8),
.BR upgradepkg (8),
.BR viewpkg (1),
.BR explodepkg (1),
.BR makepkg (1),
.BR convertpkg (1),
.BR md5sum (1),
.BR sha1sum (1)
