.TH VIEWPKG 1 "24 Dec 2005" "Tukaani Linux"
.SH NAME
viewpkg \- Show information about a package file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B viewpkg
.RI [ options ]
.I package_filename
.RI [ pkg_file_2 " ...]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B viewpkg
takes one or more package files and prints information about them to the
standard output. The fields shown can be specified using the
.IR options .
If no options are given
.B viewpkg
defaults to
.BR "\-NsdFi".
The fields are always shown in the same order: name, sizes, description,
file list, installation script.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-name
Show the package filename including path in one line as specified on the
command line.
.TP
.BR \-N ", " \-\-verbose-name
Show the package filename and location in two lines.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-size
Calculate and show the package compressed and uncompressed (disk usage when
installed) sizes.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-description
Show the package description. This is hopefully the most human readable
format.
.TP
.BR \-D ", " \-\-verbose-description
Show the package description with each description line prefixed with package 
basename (i.e. like the description is written in
.BR slack-desc ).
.TP
.BR \-R ", " \-\-raw-description
Show the whole
.B slack-desc
file as is.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-filelist
Show the list of files and directories in the package. This is equivalent to
.B tar tf
.IR package_filename .
.TP
.BR \-F ", " \-\-verbose-filelist
Show the list of files and directories with ownership and permission
information. This is equivalent to
.B tar tvf
.IR package_filename .
.TP
.BR \-i ", " \-\-installscript
Show the package installation script
.RB ( doinst.sh ).
.TP
.BR \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Suppress headers and delimiters, thus making the output less human readable. 
Can be useful in some scripts.

.SH AUTHORS
Lasse Collin <lasse.collin@tukaani.org>,
Ville Koskinen <w\-ber@iki.fi>

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR pkgtool (8),
.BR installpkg (8),
.BR removepkg (8),
.BR upgradepkg (8),
.BR explodepkg (1),
.BR makepkg (1),
.BR convertpkg (1),
.BR slackrepo (1),
.BR tar (1)
